Let's go back to our Bibles to Hebrews chapter 13 verses 5 and 6 and see the context of today's text
Here in Hebrews chapter 13, it says let your way of life be free of the love of money while you are content
with the present things for he has said I
Will never leave you and I will never abandon you
So that we may be of good courage and say Jehovah is my helper. I will not be afraid. What can man do to me?
Well, those are certainly encouraging words in
days of economic uncertainty
We think about thousands of people who are left homeless as a result of
flooding in such lands as the United States and Texas, Louisiana, but also a Sierra Leone with massive lands
Slides
brothers in Columbia
And we think about millions who are still gripped by severe poverty people acting in desperation in Venezuela
So this is a very key promise for Jehovah's people
Let's take a closer look at it and how it's helping our brothers
When was it issued? Why was it needed? Who wrote these words? Well evidence points to the Apostle Paul and
From where did he write and when here look at chapter 13 verse
23 and 24 I want you to know that our brother Timothy has been released
released
so Paul was in prison
If he comes soon, I will be with him
When I see you so Paul was thinking he was at the end of his own prison term and
And then verse 24 the latter part those in Italy send you their greetings
So for these and other reasons we conclude that Paul wrote Hebrews in
61 CE right before he was released from his first imprisonment in Rome
How many times had Paul been in jail up to this point? Well, he recalled that he had been in jail with Silas in
Philippi
Back around 50 CE that would have been during his second missionary journey
Then around 56 he spent two years in prison in Caesarea and then he went on to have his case heard in Rome and that took
A boat he was shipwrecked
He went to Malta eventually got on another boat wound up in Rome where he spent another two years
Under house arrest which ended in
61 CE and he would have been thrown in jail one more time before he was martyred
Well, why mention all of that because Paul could talk from experience about
Contentment he knew what it meant to follow Jehovah's direction even if it meant being low on provisions at times
He knew prison food. He knew Philippi prison food. He knew Cessaria put prison food. He knew Rome prison food
Paul wrote to the Philippians also
When he was under house arrest and to the Philippians he wrote the words that we find in chapter 4 verses 11 and 12
I have learned how to be
self-sufficient regardless of my circumstances. I know how
To be low on provisions and how to have an abundance in everything and in all circumstances
I have learned the secret both
how to be full and how to hunger both how to have an abundance and how to do
Without well, there's a secret and Paul knew it
Godly contentment is a twofold a secret if we experience financial prosperity
We we need wisdom to know how to view that some conclude well, you know if I can afford it why not buy
But to those who know the secret the question is not always
Am I living within my means but rather
Is Jehovah part of my plans?
A Paul knew not only how to have an abundance but also how to do without how to be content with less and that means knowing how to keep
Natural anxiety in perspective
A content person will never overreact as a result of financial loss. So back to the Hebrews. Why did the Hebrews need?
This council will think of the timing 61
CE what had occurred
15 years prior to this
41 to 54
See the great famine the great famine mentioned in Acts chapter 11 verses
That 28 and 29 a famine so severe that Christians from other parts of the world were sending relief supplies to our brothers
In Judea a famine that lasted for years had memories of this famine
Made the brothers there in Judea the ones to whom Paul wrote the letter to the Hebrews
Concerned about money
I might there be a lesson in that for us. Well no matter how poor we may be we should never
Come to love money or become so preoccupied with money instead. We should concentrate on being rich toward Jehovah
Do we have any recent examples of that examples of those who are showing how they are content
With the present things that they know the secret of how to do without
Of people who are putting spiritual interest first
We'll consider the situation of our brothers and venezuela the international monetary fund
projects that inflation will soon exceed
2000 percent
In venezuela that means
Something that you once paid three dollars for you will soon pay sixty three dollars for
A security of course is a major concern for our brothers people are acting in desperation armed gangs
Will ransack any building that they think has something of value inside
An unexpected situation arose due to the theme of this year's convention
Don't give up which in spanish is no serrinda and no serrinda is the
Theme that has been adopted by the opposition political party coincidentally
So the convention location in one of the cities
Had actually
They cancelled our contract when the administrator saw that he pre what he presumed to be
The opposition parties campaign slogan
Well, it was only when a sister who gives private schooling
To the state governor's children explained our neutral stand
To his wife that the misunderstanding was clarified and the convention went ahead as planned
clear thinking
In a time of panic
In a time of economic uncertainty putting spiritual things first and all of our brothers benefited spiritually
From her clear thinking circuit overseers report on the the generous spirit of the congregations as the friends share what little they have
In spite of all the chaos the brothers are showing admirable resilience and the branch rights
spiritually this is a quote
We have never been so prosperous meeting attendances field service activity the number of regular
pioneers are on the increase
People who have shown little interest in the past have asked to study the Bible new faces are seen at meetings assemblies and conventions
We hear many sincere expressions of appreciation for all the provisions to strengthen our faith
The brothers are so happy to be in the truth
content
With the present things
Well, why did Paul's advice and his letter to the Hebrews prove to be timely?
Think of the timing
61 CE
What happened in 66 CE
The Roman army of Cestius Galus surrounded Jerusalem Jesus told his disciples what to watch for and what to do when it finally happened
Now their survival depended not on the stability of their employment nor on the value of their material possessions
but on
Their obedience having kept their spirituality strong having maintained a rich condition toward Jehovah
The obedient ones knew exactly what to do
Well, we don't know what the future will hold for us. Habakkuk chapter 3 verse 17 says the
The fields may not produce food for more of us before the end comes
But we can continue to see how Jehovah fulfills his promise
I will never leave you. I will never abandon you and when we understand that then we can truly be content
With the present things